---
title: "HW7 - RNA-Seq Analysis"
linkTitle: "HW6: RNA-Seq Analysis"
description: >
type: docs
weight: 307
---

<br></br>

<div style="text-align: right"> 
Source code downloads: &nbsp; <a href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tgirke/GEN242//main/content/en/assignments/Homework/HW07/HW07.R" target="_blank">[ .R ]</a>
</div>

## A. Unstranded and strand-specific read counting 

- __Task 1__: Rerun the [RNA-Seq
  workflow](https://girke.bioinformatics.ucr.edu/GEN242/tutorials/sprnaseq/sprnaseq/)
  with the toy data sets up to the read quantification step
  [here](https://girke.bioinformatics.ucr.edu/GEN242/tutorials/sprnaseq/sprnaseq/#read-quantification). Note,
  the toy data set gets automatically loaded when intializing a workflow environment (directory structure) with the `genWorkenvir` 
  function (see tutorial [here](https://girke.bioinformatics.ucr.edu/GEN242/tutorials/sprnaseq/sprnaseq/#experimental-design)). 
  In the read quantification step with `summarizeOverlaps` generate count
  tables for exons by genes (`eByg`) of the following three strand modes:

   1. Unstranded 
   2. Strand-specific for positive (sense) strand
   3. Strand-specific for negative (antisense) strand
   
The solution for generating the unstranded read counts is given below. Note,
the upstream steps of the RNA-Seq workflow only need to be rerun to generate
the proper inputs for the read counting. Thus, they are not required to be
included in the homework results (see `HW7.R` below).

```r
summarizeOverlaps(eByg, bfl, mode="Union", 
                    ignore.strand=TRUE, 
                    # preprocess.reads=invertStrand,
                    inter.feature=FALSE, 
                    singleEnd=TRUE)
```

Before attempting to solve this homework task please read the vignette _Counting reads with `summarizeOverlaps`_ ([here](http://bioconductor.org/packages/release/bioc/html/GenomicAlignments.html)) from the `GenomicAlignments` package that defines the `summarizeOverlap` function.

- __Task 2__: Provide R code that demonstrates that the two strand-specific count tables sum up to the values of the unstranded count table. 

- __Task 3__: Explain the utility (biological relevance) of the different strand counting modes used under Task 1. Include your explanation as comment text in your homework script (see `HW7.R` below). 

## B. Read counting for different feature types
- __Task 4__: Compute strand-specific count tables for the positive (sense) strand of the following feature types. The help files of `?exonsBy` and `?transcripts` provide useful information for solving these tasks. 

   1. Genes
   2. Exons
   3. Exons by genes 
   4. Introns by transcripts
   5. 5'-UTRs by transcripts

## C. DEG analysis

- __Task 5__: Perform the DEG analysis with `edgeR` as outlined under section 6 of the RNA-Seq workflow [here](https://girke.bioinformatics.ucr.edu/GEN242/tutorials/sprnaseq/sprnaseq/#run-edger). Use in one case for the DEG analysis the unstranded count table as input (from Task 1.1) and in another the sense strand count table (from Task 1.2). Compare the DEG result of the two methods in two separate 4-way Venn diagrams for the same sample comparisons used in the workflow example [here](https://girke.bioinformatics.ucr.edu/GEN242/tutorials/sprnaseq/sprnaseq/#venn-diagrams-of-deg-sets).

   1. 4-way Venn diagram for unstranded count table
   2. 4-way Venn diagram for sense strand count table

## Homework submission

Accept the **project** on [Github Classroom](https://classroom.github.com/a/mSDjRBc8)

From this homework, you will start to use a big classroom repository "project". It means you will continue to work on 
this repository till the end of this class, including later homework and the course project. 
You are responsible to maintain the repository including the `README.md` file.

1. To start with HW7, accept the assignment and git clone to HPCC or your local. 
2. Create a directory "hw7" and include your HW7 submissions in that directory. 

- Your script file, submit to either `hw7/hw7.R` or `hw7/hw7.Rmd`.
- two Venn diagram plots `hw7/unstranded.png` and `hw7/sense.png`

### Auto-grading
You will complete most of your HW7 on HPC, some files are too large to submit 
to Github, so there is no auto-grading for this homework.  Your TA will 
manually check the code later.

### Details
- From this homework, you will start to learn Rmarkdown. If you think 
  this is new to you, then provide your solution in a file `hw7.R`. In `hw7.R`, 
  there is no object you are asked to assign to. Some files in 
  the code may be stored on HPC, so it will be **fine if your `hw7.R` cannot be `source()`**. 

- Or add your new homework code to the `systemPipeRNAseq.Rmd` file and rename it `hw7.Rmd` to submit.
- Only choose one type to submit, not both.

As for the plots, again, they can be `.png` or `.jpg` or `.jpeg` extensions.

### Grading
- Task1 
    - Unstranded: 1
    - Positive: 1
    - Negative: 1
- Task2: 1
- Task3: 1
- Task4 
    - Genes: 0.5
    - Exons: 0.5
    - Exons by genes: 0.5
    - Introns by transcripts: 0.5 
    - 5'-UTRs by transcripts: 0.5
- Task5 
    - DEG: 1
    - Venn1: 1
    - Venn2: 1

Total: 10.5

### Due date

This homework is due in one week on Thu, May 6th at 6:00 PM.

## Homework Solutions

Will be posted after due date.

