---
title: "HW8 - R Markdown Template of Course Project"
linkTitle: "HW8: R Markdown"
description: >
type: docs
weight: 308
---

<br></br>

## Render R Markdown (Rmd) of your project

Students will choose for this assignment the Rmd template of the workflow they
are expected to complete for their challenge project, meaning either the
[RNA-Seq](https://girke.bioinformatics.ucr.edu/GEN242/tutorials/sprnaseq/sprnaseq/) or the 
[ChIP-Seq](https://girke.bioinformatics.ucr.edu/GEN242/tutorials/sprnaseq/sprnaseq/) workflow 
that were both covered in class.

To get started with the following homework tasks, log in to your HPCC account and create under the course project path `/bigdata/gen242/shared/<user_name>` assigned 
to you the corresponding workflow template using the `genWorkenvir` function. Open in the root directory the Rmd file of your workflow with vim/nvim. Next make the
following changes to the R Markdown file, render it to HTML and PDF format, and then submit the rendered report along with the corresponding Rmd source file to GitHub
classroom as instructed below. The changes to include in the R Markdown are:
    
__Tasks__

   1. Add a short section describing the analysis steps you have chosen to perform as part of your challenge project. 
   2. In the challenge project section, add the reference of the paper you have chosen to present in class as part of your course project to the `bibtex.tex` file and 
   then cite it in the Rmd file so that the proper citation shows up in the text and the corresponding reference is added to the reference list. 
   3. Add a mathematical equation to the challenge project section.
   4. Evaluate an R expression in the text of your challenge project, _e.g._ mathematical or number from an existing R ojeckt such as mean value of the first column of 
      the iris `data.frame`. 
   5. Add a code chunk that auto-generates the barplot for HW3C. This barplot should be embedded in the rendered report without saving it intermediately to a file.
   6. Add an interactive table with the the `DT` package that includes the iris `data.frame` in the report
   7. Use the `rmarkdown::render()` function to render the report to HTML and PDF format. Important, for this assignment it is not relevant to evaluate the code chunks for the
   actual analysis steps. Only the ones for the above tasks are important.
   8. Submit the Rmd, PDF and HTML file for the report to the corresponding repos on GitHub Classroom (see below).
   

## Homework submission

Accept the ... on [Github Classroom]()


### Due date

This homework is due in one week on Thu, May 13th at 6:00 PM.

## Homework Solutions

Will be posted after due date.

